FEP = free energy perturbation
calculates free energy for a transformation from one molecule into another
(in this case for sake of demonstration ethane to ethane, so free energy should be zero)

Inputstructure (ethan_FEP.arc):
- appearing moleculed are marked with IN, disappearing molecules with OUT
- in this case one methyl-group (atoms 6, 9, 10 and 11 are disappearing and replaced with H-atom 13 
                                while H-atom 12 is replaced by a methyl-group formed by atoms 2 to 5)


Inputfile:

The transformation is done stepwise in a number of windows that differ in their value lambda which normally goes from 0 (educt) to 1 (product).
If you don't want to go until the product you can change the value for FEPlambda to a value smaller than 1 (normally you don't do this).
The value FEPdlambda defines the size of the window. In this case it is 0.1 so you have 10 windows.

FEPvdwcouple, FEPeleccouple, FEPvshift and FEPcshift are parameters for softcore-potentials that are used in order to avoid numerical instabilities.
(details see manual and literature) FEPvshift and FEPcshift control the strength of the softcore-potential.
FEPvdwcouple and FEPeleccouple are there because the contributions by Van der Waals-interactions and electrostatic interactions are scaled independently.
FEPvdwcouple is the lambda value where the vdw-interactions for appearing atoms reach their maximum (see output.txt, last two columns in table
Van-der-Waals Coupling), FEPeleccouple is the lambda value where the coulomb-interactions to appearing atoms start (see output.txt, last two columns in the
table Electrostatic Coupling). The interactions for disappearing atoms are scaled down in a similar way (see first two columns in the tables).

The calculation consists of one initilisation run whose length is determined by MDsteps (1000) and a number of windows (see above). In each of these windows
an equilibration is done whose length in determined by FEPequil (20000) and after that the production with length FEPsteps (50000). During the production
run all the conformations are saved to calculate the free energy of each window. FEPfreq controls the output frequency of alchemical.txt and does not affect 
the calculation.


Output files:

FEP_Results.txt
For each window the lambda value and the free energy change till the current window is given. So the second number in the last row is the total free 
energy change you are probably interested in.

alchemical.txt
For every FEPfreq'th step of every equilibration and production run the following things are given:
- coulomb energy for this conformation at the start of the current window
- coulomb energy for this conformation at the end of the current window
- vdw energy for this conformation at the start of the current window
- vdw energy for this conformation at the end of the current window
- temperature
- change in potential energy for this conformation during the current window
- free energy change calculated from the ensemble average for the current window as far as the ensemble average is still created (only in production run)
After each production run the free energy change for the complete window is given (last value of the last column) and the total free energy change until
the current window (sum of all free energy changes until this point; identical to the values in FEP_Results.txt).

worked on 01.03.2017
 